okay so let's have a look at playing a
little tune with these three chords it's
going to sound like this 34
okay now that is just known as a 145
progression in the key of a now
countless songs have really been written
using chords one four and five it could
be in any key you can play 145
progression in any key in this case we
played 145 in a and then you can
actually go onto the internet and you'll
you can do a search for some songs in a
making use of 145 chord progressions and
I'm sure you'll come up with a whole
host of tunes the rhythm that I use in
this case wasn't just for down strokes
and it wasn't consistent down up shirts
it was actually down down up down down
up down down up down down up now the
number one thing you need to remember
when you're playing rhythms is your
right hand needs to keep moving down up
consistently so then you can add this
rhythm like this three and four and down
down up down down
okay like I said in some of the other
lessons we're going to look at some
other interesting ways to play those
three chords making use of some
different rhythms and but for now before
you move on to those to the next list
and make sure that you've got these
chords down let's recap everything
little quickly we looked at the anatomy
of the guitar what all the different
parts are called go with a sheet to make
sure that you cool with that we looked
at how to read cold frames chord boxes
cold grits whatever you want to call
them we looked at the fingering on the
left hand we look at some tips to
playing your chords nice and clean and
we looked at three chords emailer a
major D major we look at some strumming
patterns and strumming techniques down
strokes and up strokes and we looked at
a 145 progression in the key of a so if
any of these examples were too fast for
you at this point which they may well
very well have been don't worry about
that just slow it down remember to take
things at your own pace and then as soon
as you're ready to move on to the next
stuff then you can do sewing so that
wraps up the first lesson for us at this
stage go and practice these chords have
fun with them and try and remember that
consistency conquers which means if you
practice these things every day you will
get them right the problem is going to
be if you only tried once a week and
then whenever the next lesson is
available once you get that lesson you
might if you still don't have the
previous one down then you might get
frustrated you might feel that you can't
do it and then it's not the fact that
you can't do it because you haven't got
the talent or or the ability to play the
reason for that would just be that you
didn't practice enough so make sure that
doesn't happen to you find the time of
day that suits you really well practice
every single day I would really suggest
a minimum of half an hour a day
that way you'll have enough time to work
through the material and you should
start seeing some results very very soon
if you have any questions about these
things you're welcome to go and post on
the forum I think you need to be a
member on the site to post on the forum
but we've got free memberships available
they so that's a place to go and post
any questions or any comments you might
have about these lessons there we go
then I really hope you enjoyed this
introduction to acoustic guitar and then
I'll see you in the Nexus and where
we're going to take things a little
further until next time have fun